Preparing Your Home
for Professional Photos
In this video, we will walk through how
to prepare your home so your listing
photos look great, attract buyers, and
help prevent issues later in the process.
Professional photos are one of the
most important parts of your listing.
They are often the first impression
buyers get, so a little preparation
ahead of time can make a big difference.
Preparing Every Room
Start with a thorough cleaning.
Dust, vacuum, mop, and wipe down
surfaces throughout the home.
Pay close attention to floors,
windows, and mirrors so everything
looks clean and well maintained.
Turn on all interior lights and
replace any burnt-out bulbs.
Open curtains and blinds
to let in natural light.
Bright rooms photograph
better and feel more inviting.
Next, remove clutter and personal items.
Clear off countertops,
tables, and shelves.
Put away family photos, paperwork,
pet items, cords, trash cans, laundry
baskets, and cleaning supplies.
The goal is to help buyers
focus on the space itself.
Kitchen and Bathrooms
These rooms get a lot of attention
from buyers, so keep them simple.
In the kitchen, clear countertops or leave
just one or two minimal decorative items.
Clean appliances, sinks, and
backsplashes until they shine.
In bathrooms, remove all toiletries,
close toilet lids, hang clean
neutral towels, and make sure
mirrors and fixtures are spotless.
Living Areas and Bedrooms
Arrange furniture neatly and remove extra
pieces that make rooms feel crowded.
Make all beds and turn off televisions.
Exterior and Curb Appeal
The outside of your home matters
just as much as the inside.
Mow the lawn, trim bushes,
sweep walkways and driveways,
and remove cars if possible.
Clean exterior windows at least 48 hours
before photos are taken so they have
time to dry and won’t appear streaky.
Hide trash cans, hoses, tools, and toys.
Pets and Access
Photography equipment can be stressful
for pets, so plan to have them out
of the home during the photo shoot.
Conveying vs.
Non-Conveying Items
This is an important step
many sellers overlook.
Anything attached to the home is generally
assumed to stay with the property.
This includes light fixtures,
ceiling fans, and mounted items.
If there is something attached that
you plan to take with you, especially
a sentimental fixture, we recommend
replacing it before photos are taken.
Once an item appears in listing photos,
buyers expect it to be included.
Swapping it out ahead of time helps avoid
confusion or negotiation issues later.
Before the photographer arrives,
do one last walkthrough and look at
your home from a buyer’s perspective.
Taking these steps helps your photos
accurately represent your home and
sets your listing up for success.